Extension Manifest Converter blog post (#708)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/extension-manifest-converter/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'

> title: Extension Manifest Converter

Reviewer: This sounds like it only converts the manifest. Would "Manifest V3 extension converter" make more sense?

Also we use sentence case for titles, e.g. "Extension manifest converter" if we were keeping the title unchanged.

Author: Updated the title to use sentence case.

description: >
  Open source tool to convert extensions to Manifest V3. You'll still need to manually update any
  service worker code that relies on a DOM, in addition to updating chrome.scripts.
subhead: >
  Easily convert an entire directory, extension zip file, or manifest.json file.
date: 2021-04-28
updated: 2021-04-28
authors:
  - solomonkinard
  - dotproto
tags:
  - extensions

> hero: image/WlD8wC6g8khYWPJUsQceQkhXSlv1/GVDuhpIli5DeYmbiPlqG.jpg

Reviewer 2: While a good picture - what's the correlation between planing and MV2->3 conversion? ; )

Author: It's a pretty loose association. The vague idea is that like a plane this is specialized tool for a specific job. It won't do everything for you, but it is useful for the niche it fills. Nothing beyond that besides its visual appeal.

I'm open to other ideas. I also have a couple other contenders that might be worth discussing offline.

alt: A woodworking hand plane.
---

Hi everyone. My name is Solomon and I'm a software engineer on Chrome's extensions team.

As we continue to build out the latest version of [Chrome's extensions platform][mv3], I found

> myself needing to convert MV2 extensions to MV3 for testing purposes. To make this process a little

Reviewer 2: MV2 + MV3 seem largely like they should be internal jargon, though they do seem to have leaked a bit.  I think we generally still use "Manifest V3" though.  Andy?

Author: That's on me. I get lazy and stop typing out "Manifest V3." I'm open to updating this post & avoiding the MVX pattern moving forward.

> easier I created a tool called [Extension Manifest Converter][emc-repo] (EMC).

Reviewer: Ah yes, I see this is actually what we named it. Is that set in soapstone?

Author: I have to defer to @solomonkinard on that

> EMC is a Python 3 command line tool that automates several parts of converting an extension form MV2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EMC is a Python 3 command line tool that automates several parts of converting an extension from MV2
```

to MV3. Users can quickly convert an extension directory, zip file, or manifest.json file with a
single command.

```bash
python3 extension.py <extension_path>
```

This tool automates some of the more mechanical parts of updating an extension like moving from
`chrome.browserAction` to `chrome.action` or moving to the new [web accessible resources][war]

> syntax introduced with Manifest V3.

Reviewer 2: While we link to the repo (which includes this), I wonder if we should explicitly call out:
a) Look at the repo's .md for a more thorough description of what this handles
b) This does not automate everything - in particular, runtime and behavior changes like adopting service worker are not supported
c) This is a tool we found useful, and wanted to open source.  It's not going to have first-party, dedicated, perennial support.  YMMV.  (In fewer words : ))

Author: These are all good suggestions. Working on integrating them now.

> If you encounter any issues with the project, [open an issue][emc-issue] on the [project's

Reviewer: This is the rare case where "please" is appropriate: "...please open an issue..."

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list?hl=en#:~:text=Use%20please%20only,your%20account%20representative.

Author: Haha, I wrote and deleted please more times than I'd like to admit. I will add it back.

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: Extension manifest converter
description: >

>   Open source tool to convert extensions to Manifest V3. You'll still need to manually update any
>   service worker code that relies on a DOM, in addition to updating chrome.scripts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Open source tool to convert extensions to Manifest V3. You'll still need to manually update any
  code with non-mechanical changes, such as adapting to use service workers or some script
  injection.
```

(Trying to make it more obvious that this is a non-exhaustive list)
